Update ingester.md (#4827)
grafana/mimir: docs/sources/mimir/operators-guide/architecture/components/ingester.md

weight: 30
---

> # Understanding the Grafana Mimir Ingester Component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Grafana Mimir ingester
```
The title must match the metadata, and the other components have parallel structure to the original. Reverting.

The ingester is a stateful component that writes incoming series to [long-term storage]({{< relref "../about-grafana-mimir-architecture/index.md#long-term-storage" >}}) on the write path and returns series samples for queries on the read path.

> Incoming time series data from [distributors]({{< relref "distributor.md" >}}) is temporarily stored in the ingester's memory or offloaded to disk before being written to long-term storage.

Reviewer: As odd as it sounds, "data" is plural.

> Incoming time series data from [distributors]({{< relref "distributor.md" >}}) is temporarily stored in the ingester's memory or offloaded to disk before being written to long-term storage.

Author: oh gosh, i did know this once

If the ingesters immediately write received samples to the long-term storage, the system would have difficulty scaling due to the high pressure on the long-term storage.
For this reason, the ingesters batch and compress samples in-memory and periodically upload them to the long-term storage.

Write de-amplification is a key factor in reducing Mimir's total cost of ownership (TCO).

## Ingesters failure and data loss

> If an ingester process crashes or exits abruptly, any in-memory time series data that has not yet been uploaded to long-term storage may be lost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an ingester process crashes or exits abruptly, any in-memory time series data that have not yet been uploaded to long-term storage may be lost.
```

The write-ahead log (WAL) writes all incoming series to a persistent disk until the series are uploaded to the long-term storage.
If an ingester fails, a subsequent process restart replays the WAL and recovers the in-memory series samples.

> Unlike sole replication, the WAL ensures that in-memory time series data is not lost in the event of multiple ingester failures. Each ingester can recover the data from the WAL after a subsequent restart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike sole replication, the WAL ensures that in-memory time series data are not lost in the case of multiple ingester failures. Each ingester can recover the data from the WAL after a subsequent restart.
```
"event" is overloaded in our industry, so changing word to "case".
